README.md, before:

# Qt Web Extractor

A general-purpose web content extraction engine powered by Qt WebEngine
(Chromium). Designed to extract fully-rendered text and HTML from modern web
pages that rely on JavaScript, cookies, dynamic content loading, or
client-side rendering — scenarios where plain HTTP fetchers fall short.

Also supports extracting text from PDF documents via Qt PDF.

**Key features:**

- **Full JavaScript rendering** — handles SPAs, React/Vue/Angular apps, and
  any page that requires JS to display content.
- **Cookie & session support** — access pages behind login walls or consent
  gates.
- **PDF text extraction** — extract text from PDF documents via Qt PDF with
  auto-detection.
- **Multiple interfaces** — use as a CLI tool, Python library, or HTTP
  service with a simple REST API.
- **Headless operation** — runs in Qt offscreen mode, no display or GPU
  required.
- **systemd integration** — ships with a service unit for easy deployment.
- **Open WebUI compatible** — works as an external web page loader for
  [Open WebUI](https://github.com/open-webui/open-webui), and can also be
  used as a custom tool plugin.
- **Universal HTTP API** — the REST server can serve any application that
  needs rendered web content: AI agents, crawlers, monitoring tools,
  automation scripts, and more.

## Why?

Traditional HTTP fetchers (like `requests` or `urllib`) do plain HTTP
requests — no JS execution, no cookie handling, no waiting for async content.
That means SPAs, React/Vue apps, and anything behind a login wall comes back
empty or broken.

Qt Web Extractor spins up a headless Chromium (via Qt WebEngine) to render
pages properly, then hands back the text and HTML. Runs in offscreen mode by
default, no display needed.

## Install

### System deps

You need Qt6 WebEngine (which includes Qt6 PDF). On Arch:

```
sudo pacman -S qt6-webengine pyside6
```

### Install the package

```
pip install .
```

Or in dev mode:

```
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

### CLI

```bash
# plain text
python -m qt_web_extractor https://example.com

# JSON output
python -m qt_web_extractor --json https://example.com

# rendered HTML
python -m qt_web_extractor --html https://example.com

# custom timeout (ms)
python -m qt_web_extractor --timeout 60000 https://example.com

# custom User-Agent
python -m qt_web_extractor --user-agent "MyBot/1.0" https://example.com

# multiple URLs
python -m qt_web_extractor https://example.com https://example.org

# extract text from a PDF (auto-detected by .pdf extension)
python -m qt_web_extractor https://example.com/document.pdf

# force PDF extraction mode
python -m qt_web_extractor --pdf https://example.com/file
```

### Python API

```python
from qt_web_extractor import QtWebExtractor

extractor = QtWebExtractor(timeout_ms=30000)
result = extractor.extract("https://example.com")

print(result.title)
print(result.text)   # plain text
print(result.html)   # rendered HTML
print(result.error)  # empty string if all went well

# extract from PDF
result = extractor.extract_pdf("https://example.com/document.pdf")
print(result.text)
```

### Open WebUI integration

Qt Web Extractor integrates with Open WebUI as an **external web page loader**.
The server exposes an API compatible with Open WebUI's built-in web loader engine.

1. Install and start the server:
   ```
   sudo systemctl enable --now qt-web-extractor
   ```

   Or run manually:
   ```
   qt-web-extractor serve
   ```

2. In the Open WebUI admin panel, go to
   **Settings → Web Search → Web Page Loader**

3. Set **Web Loader Engine** to `external`

4. Set **External Web Loader URL** to `http://127.0.0.1:8766`
   (or wherever the server is running)

5. Set **External Web Loader API Key** to the server's `API_KEY` if
   you configured one, or any non-empty string if didn't.

That's it — Open WebUI will now use Qt Web Extractor to load all web pages
with full JavaScript rendering support. PDF URLs are auto-detected and handled
via Qt PDF.

#### Alternative: custom tool

You can also use `qt_web_extractor/tool.py` as a custom Open WebUI tool for
more explicit control (see the file for setup instructions). This provides
`fetch_page`, `fetch_page_html`, and `fetch_pdf` as conversation tools.

### Server mode

Run as a persistent HTTP service for any application — AI platforms (Open
WebUI, etc.), web crawlers, automation scripts, monitoring tools, or your
own projects:

```bash
# start with defaults (127.0.0.1:8766)
qt-web-extractor serve

# custom host/port
qt-web-extractor serve --host 0.0.0.0 --port 9000

# with API key auth
qt-web-extractor serve --api-key mysecretkey
```

API endpoints:
- `POST /` with `{"urls": ["https://...", ...]}` → Open WebUI external loader
  format, returns `[{"page_content": "...", "metadata": {"source": "...", "title": "..."}}]`
- `POST /extract` with `{"url": "https://..."}` → single-URL format, returns
  JSON with `url`, `title`, `text`, `html`, `error`
- `GET /health` → `{"status": "ok"}`

PDF URLs (ending in `.pdf`) are auto-detected in both endpoints. For
`POST /extract`, pass `"pdf": true` to force PDF mode.

### systemd

A service file and config are included:

```bash
# edit config
sudo nano /etc/qt-web-extractor.conf

# start
sudo systemctl enable --now qt-web-extractor
```

#### Open WebUI settings

| Setting | Value | Description |
|---------|-------|-------------|
| `WEB_LOADER_ENGINE` | `external` | Use external web loader |
| `EXTERNAL_WEB_LOADER_URL` | `http://127.0.0.1:8766` | Server URL |
| `EXTERNAL_WEB_LOADER_API_KEY` | `""` | Bearer token (must match server's `API_KEY`) |

#### Server config (`/etc/qt-web-extractor.conf`)

| Name | Default | Description |
|------|---------|-------------|
| `HOST` | `127.0.0.1` | Listen address |
| `PORT` | `8766` | Listen port |
| `TIMEOUT_MS` | `30000` | Page load timeout (ms) |
| `USER_AGENT` | `""` | Custom User-Agent |
| `API_KEY` | `""` | Bearer token auth (empty = no auth) |

## How it works

The server runs Qt WebEngine on the main thread (Qt requirement) and an HTTP
server in a background thread. Incoming requests are queued and processed one
at a time by the Qt event loop. Each page gets 2 seconds after `loadFinished`
for JS to settle, then `toPlainText()` and `toHtml()` are extracted from the
rendered DOM. A hard timeout prevents hanging on unresponsive pages.

Sites behind Cloudflare's aggressive bot challenge may still fail — this is a
known limitation of all headless browsers.

## Project layout

```
qt-web-extractor/
├── pyproject.toml
├── PKGBUILD
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── qt-web-extractor.service         # systemd unit
├── qt-web-extractor.conf.example    # default config
└── qt_web_extractor/
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── __main__.py      # CLI (extract + serve subcommands)
    ├── extractor.py     # core engine (QWebEnginePage)
    ├── server.py        # HTTP server wrapper
    └── tool.py          # Open WebUI tool interface
```

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 or later (GPL-3.0-or-later). See the [COPYING](COPYING) file for details.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but **WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY**; without even the implied warranty of **MERCHANTABILITY** or **FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE**. See the [GNU General Public License](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html) for more details.

Commit message:

Add AUR installation info and comparison with similar tools
- Add Arch Linux (AUR) installation instructions using yay/paru
- Add "Why not Playwright/Puppeteer/Selenium?" section highlighting benefits:
  - Simpler deployment without separate Chromium binaries
  - Better package manager integration and automatic security updates
  - More lightweight for pure content extraction use cases
- Minor formatting cleanup in README

Signed-off-by: Zhou Qiankang <wszqkzqk@qq.com>

README.md, after:

# Qt Web Extractor

A general-purpose web content extraction engine powered by Qt WebEngine
(Chromium). Designed to extract fully-rendered text and HTML from modern web
pages that rely on JavaScript, cookies, dynamic content loading, or
client-side rendering — scenarios where plain HTTP fetchers fall short.

Also supports extracting text from PDF documents via Qt PDF.

**Key features:**

- **Full JavaScript rendering** — handles SPAs, React/Vue/Angular apps, and
  any page that requires JS to display content.
- **Cookie & session support** — access pages behind login walls or consent
  gates.
- **PDF text extraction** — extract text from PDF documents via Qt PDF with
  auto-detection.
- **Multiple interfaces** — use as a CLI tool, Python library, or HTTP
  service with a simple REST API.
- **Headless operation** — runs in Qt offscreen mode, no display or GPU
  required.
- **systemd integration** — ships with a service unit for easy deployment.
- **Open WebUI compatible** — works as an external web page loader for
  [Open WebUI](https://github.com/open-webui/open-webui), and can also be
  used as a custom tool plugin.
- **Universal HTTP API** — the REST server can serve any application that
  needs rendered web content: AI agents, crawlers, monitoring tools,
  automation scripts, and more.

## Why?

Traditional HTTP fetchers (like `requests` or `urllib`) do plain HTTP
requests — no JS execution, no cookie handling, no waiting for async content.
That means SPAs, React/Vue apps, and anything behind a login wall comes back
empty or broken.

Qt Web Extractor spins up a headless Chromium (via Qt WebEngine) to render
pages properly, then hands back the text and HTML. Runs in offscreen mode by
default, no display needed.

### Why not Playwright / Puppeteer / Selenium?

While tools like Playwright are incredibly powerful for browser automation, they can be overkill for simple content extraction:

- **Simpler Deployment:** No need to download and manage separate, standalone Chromium binaries (which Playwright/Puppeteer do by default).
- **Package Manager Integration:** It uses the system's native Qt WebEngine. On Linux distributions, this means it integrates perfectly with your system's package manager, receiving security updates automatically without bloating your application directory.
- **Lightweight:** It focuses purely on rendering and extracting content, making it more lightweight and straightforward to set up as a simple background service.

## Install

### Arch Linux (AUR)

You can install the package directly from the Arch User Repository (AUR) using your favorite AUR helper (e.g., `yay` or `paru`):

```bash
yay -S qt-web-extractor
```

### System deps

You need Qt6 WebEngine (which includes Qt6 PDF). On Arch:

```
sudo pacman -S qt6-webengine pyside6
```

### Install the package

```
pip install .
```

Or in dev mode:

```
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

### CLI

```bash
# plain text
python -m qt_web_extractor https://example.com

# JSON output
python -m qt_web_extractor --json https://example.com

# rendered HTML
python -m qt_web_extractor --html https://example.com

# custom timeout (ms)
python -m qt_web_extractor --timeout 60000 https://example.com

# custom User-Agent
python -m qt_web_extractor --user-agent "MyBot/1.0" https://example.com

# multiple URLs
python -m qt_web_extractor https://example.com https://example.org

# extract text from a PDF (auto-detected by .pdf extension)
python -m qt_web_extractor https://example.com/document.pdf

# force PDF extraction mode
python -m qt_web_extractor --pdf https://example.com/file
```

### Python API

```python
from qt_web_extractor import QtWebExtractor

extractor = QtWebExtractor(timeout_ms=30000)
result = extractor.extract("https://example.com")

print(result.title)
print(result.text)   # plain text
print(result.html)   # rendered HTML
print(result.error)  # empty string if all went well

# extract from PDF
result = extractor.extract_pdf("https://example.com/document.pdf")
print(result.text)
```

### Open WebUI integration

Qt Web Extractor integrates with Open WebUI as an **external web page loader**.
The server exposes an API compatible with Open WebUI's built-in web loader engine.

1. Install and start the server:
   ```
   sudo systemctl enable --now qt-web-extractor
   ```

   Or run manually:
   ```
   qt-web-extractor serve
   ```

2. In the Open WebUI admin panel, go to
   **Settings → Web Search → Web Page Loader**

3. Set **Web Loader Engine** to `external`

4. Set **External Web Loader URL** to `http://127.0.0.1:8766`
   (or wherever the server is running)

5. Set **External Web Loader API Key** to the server's `API_KEY` if
   you configured one, or any non-empty string if didn't.

That's it — Open WebUI will now use Qt Web Extractor to load all web pages
with full JavaScript rendering support. PDF URLs are auto-detected and handled
via Qt PDF.

#### Alternative: custom tool

You can also use `qt_web_extractor/tool.py` as a custom Open WebUI tool for
more explicit control (see the file for setup instructions). This provides
`fetch_page`, `fetch_page_html`, and `fetch_pdf` as conversation tools.

### Server mode

Run as a persistent HTTP service for any application — AI platforms (Open
WebUI, etc.), web crawlers, automation scripts, monitoring tools, or your
own projects:

```bash
# start with defaults (127.0.0.1:8766)
qt-web-extractor serve

# custom host/port
qt-web-extractor serve --host 0.0.0.0 --port 9000

# with API key auth
qt-web-extractor serve --api-key mysecretkey
```

API endpoints:
- `POST /` with `{"urls": ["https://...", ...]}` → Open WebUI external loader
  format, returns `[{"page_content": "...", "metadata": {"source": "...", "title": "..."}}]`
- `POST /extract` with `{"url": "https://..."}` → single-URL format, returns
  JSON with `url`, `title`, `text`, `html`, `error`
- `GET /health` → `{"status": "ok"}`

PDF URLs (ending in `.pdf`) are auto-detected in both endpoints. For
`POST /extract`, pass `"pdf": true` to force PDF mode.

### systemd

A service file and config are included:

```bash
# edit config
sudo nano /etc/qt-web-extractor.conf

# start
sudo systemctl enable --now qt-web-extractor
```

#### Open WebUI settings

| Setting | Value | Description |
|---------|-------|-------------|
| `WEB_LOADER_ENGINE` | `external` | Use external web loader |
| `EXTERNAL_WEB_LOADER_URL` | `http://127.0.0.1:8766` | Server URL |
| `EXTERNAL_WEB_LOADER_API_KEY` | `""` | Bearer token (must match server's `API_KEY`) |

#### Server config (`/etc/qt-web-extractor.conf`)

| Name | Default | Description |
|------|---------|-------------|
| `HOST` | `127.0.0.1` | Listen address |
| `PORT` | `8766` | Listen port |
| `TIMEOUT_MS` | `30000` | Page load timeout (ms) |
| `USER_AGENT` | `""` | Custom User-Agent |
| `API_KEY` | `""` | Bearer token auth (empty = no auth) |

## How it works

The server runs Qt WebEngine on the main thread (Qt requirement) and an HTTP
server in a background thread. Incoming requests are queued and processed one
at a time by the Qt event loop. Each page gets 2 seconds after `loadFinished`
for JS to settle, then `toPlainText()` and `toHtml()` are extracted from the
rendered DOM. A hard timeout prevents hanging on unresponsive pages.

Sites behind Cloudflare's aggressive bot challenge may still fail — this is a
known limitation of all headless browsers.

## Project layout

```
qt-web-extractor/
├── pyproject.toml
├── PKGBUILD
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── qt-web-extractor.service         # systemd unit
├── qt-web-extractor.conf.example    # default config
└── qt_web_extractor/
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── __main__.py      # CLI (extract + serve subcommands)
    ├── extractor.py     # core engine (QWebEnginePage)
    ├── server.py        # HTTP server wrapper
    └── tool.py          # Open WebUI tool interface
```

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 or later (GPL-3.0-or-later). See the [COPYING](COPYING) file for details.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but **WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY**; without even the implied warranty of **MERCHANTABILITY** or **FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE**. See the [GNU General Public License](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html) for more details.
